Yes, Mark.
>> With the domain name,
are there other things offered like SSL,
hosting, etc, or do I need to get it?
Or are there any add-ons or things?
>> So we're gonna use Namecheap for
our domains,
we're gonna use Namecheap even
though the UI is just okay.
We're using them cuz they have
a lot of functionality built in.
So if you want SSL,
you want email hosting,
you can do all that via Namecheap,
they don't try to push you too hard.
Originally, I tried to use
the Google Domains, cuz I'm like, Google,
things like google.domains, or
domains.google, I forget which one.
So I went through,
I bought a domain with them, one,
it was more expensive than Namecheap.
Two, they really were trying to upsell me
the whole way, which I really don't like.
You already know my stance on ads and
privacy,
I have a strong stance on being
upsold on things as well.
So we use Namecheap because it's gonna
give you the cheapest domain name
possible.
There might be something like or something
like that which maybe a little cheaper.
But Namecheap's gotta have the biggest
selection at the cheapest prices.
And there's another question about
country level top domains, who owns them?
Generally, something like,
.ru comes to mind.
Russia owns the .ru domain name,
they've registered that with ICANN.
Most countries own their own domain names,
that's not always the case.
Because the country can sell away
the rights to their domain for money.
I've tried think of some examples from
the earlier days of the Internet, but
there's like some country, .io.
You all remember a couple years ago
the explosion of, every startup and
tech company had .io company name or
.ly company name?
It was bit.ly and fast.ly and
all these other things.
Yeah, that was a trend that went away,
I don't know what happened to that.
But the .ly domain name
is actually a country TLD
owned by somebody,
some small island nation.
I think they sold it, or
they made a bunch of money from that, .ly,
just because it happened to rhyme, or
go well with the English language.
So countries generally own them,
not necessarily.
The other one is, there are reserved
domain names that you cannot get.
So .org, the only way to get a .org
is to be a registered organization.
So generally, maybe a nonprofit or
something like that.
I can't just say like gem.org, I have
to actually be a 501(3)(c) nonprofit or
something like that.
The other one is .edu,
you have to be a legitimate educational
institute to have a .edu domain name.
Another one comes to mind is .gov,
you can't get a .gov domain name,
that kinda makes sense.
Only legitimate government entities
can do that, .mil, .military,
you can only get if you're
part of the military.
So there are restricted domain names that
you may see that aren't available besides
the ones that are owned by corporations.
But don't get distracted,
once we go to Namecheap,
you will see how many
possible TLDs there are.
And you probably won't be able to
think of funny names for all of them.
So I'm gonna jump to namecheap.com.
And what sort of domain name do I have?
I really should plan this ahead of time.
I put 100 plus hours in this course, and
I didn't bother thinking
of a funny domain name.
I'm stuck here.
>> If it helps,
I'm gonna register quake3lanparty.lol.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Because that brings me back to my
college days.
>> So someone's gonna register
quake3lanparty.lol, that's pretty good.
>> Someone registered at
Google to the sql2google.com.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] All right, jemstack.lol,
I wish I bought fullstack.
All right,
you do not need any services, SSL,
we're gonna do that ourselves and
we're gonna do it for free.
So you don't need any of this stuff.
Business email, I will show you
how to set up email forwarding,
just nice to have with domain,
it's pretty sweet.
All right, so I'm gonna check out, I
already have an account with Namecheap and
my cart, so I'm just gonna check out.
Blah, domain privacy,
sure, confirm my order.
We see here with the registration,
remember we talked about ICANN?
We pay them a fee every time
we buy a domain or renew it,
it helps keep the nameservers alive,
helps keep it running.
I'm just gonna buy it.
Important thing on Namecheap or
any other registrar, so
Namecheap is known as
the registrar at Google Domains.
Any sort of domain hosting are known as
registrar's because they register your
domain to yourself as the owner.
You always want a strong password,
you always want two-factor authentication.
There have been times in the past where
people have stolen people's credentials.
And suddenly, microsoft.com goes
somewhere else entirely different.
And imagine the chaos there, because
it's very easy to clone a webpage and
make it look legit.
And then make a login page, and
then you're just stealing
everybody's logins really easily.
Hence, you always want security around
your domain to be very limited to
a subset of people and
very, very, very tight.
Okay, so I have secretly put
in my credit card information,
everybody in the room
knows my credit card.
Seeing some unusual purchase
activity already, but that's okay,
we'll just recharge it later.
So I've bought a domain name, I bought
jemstack.lol, which, following the rules
of a domain name, it needs to be funny or
memorable, preferably both.
So now we're into the domain
management screen.
So if you need to get to here in
Namecheap, you just go to your domains
list here, you can see all
the domains that I own, I told you.
I should have just kept one of these,
like netflix.college,
it cost me $70 a year to maintain this.
And I don't do anything with it,
I just bought it cuz I was like,
someday I'll do something with it,
netflix.design, why do I own these?
Really dashboard, anyways, we won't go
into the issues with domain squatting and
things like that.
So we're gonna go to jemstock.lol,
and I'm gonna to Manage.
Okay.
All right, so
you've probably gotten this far before,
most engineers I know
own some sort of domain.
But now it's the part where we
actually hook it up to something.
This is the missing link for a lot of
people, I know it was initially for me.
So let's check out what the slides
have to say for our next steps.
So we're gonna buy
a domain with a registrar.
Again, you don't have to use Namecheap,
they just happen to have the cheapest
domain names for
educational purposes or for fun.
Then we're gonna update the nameserver,
remember we said who the nameservers were?
That giant kinda phone book
mapping names to IP addresses?
So we're gonna move those name
servers over to DigitalOcean,
which will make it a little
bit easier to manage.
We can leave it with Namecheap,
it doesn't really matter.
But for this exercise, let's just
switch over to DigitalOcean cuz I want
you to have that experience
of moving your nameserver.
And then once we update our nameserver,
we're going to go in DigitalOcean instead
of Namecheap and
we're gonna add two A records.
And remember what we said A records where?
They map domains to IPs.
So we're gonna add one for the @,
the @ is just your domain name.
So in this case,
mine would be jemstack.lol, that's the @,
it always represents the root.
Dub dub dub, www,
it's not considered a subdomain, but
it's generally the convention,
World Wide Web.
Not a phrase we use a lot these days,
but it exists by convention.
So I want jemstack.lol to
work on both jemstack.lol and
www.gemstack.lol, depending
on how you navigate it.
So let's go ahead, and
first thing we're gonna do,
we're gonna update our nameservers.
So click on your droplet,
then click on the three dots and
say Add a domain.
So we can do this first, we can do
it after, it doesn't really matter,
let's do the nameservers first.
So the nameservers are just
ns1.digitalocean.com,
ns2.digitalocean.com,
ns3.digitalocean.com,
and they're somewhere in here.
I usually have them listed out, I forget
where, but I'll find it in a second, but
they're pretty easy to remember.
So back in Namecheap,
under our Domain Management page,
we're gonna go all the way
down to nameservers.
And we're gonna say Custom DNS, and
the name server for DigitalOcean,
ns1.digitalocean.com.
And I'm gonna copy paste cuz I don't
wanna type in the wrong thing.
And we wanna add all three, so ns2, ns3.
And all this is saying is Namecheap
is a registrar, they say,
hey, I own jemstack.lol.
It's registered to me personally,
my address,
I'm the one in charge of renewing it,
things like that.
However, I'm gonna move my actual DNS
management over to Digital Ocean,
using their nameservers.
That means Digital Ocean will be
the authoritative answer as far as where
the domain actually goes.
So I'm gonna say Save, it may take a
second to propagate some of these changes.
Because again, there's a whole bunch
of registrars and nameservers.
It can take anywhere up
to a couple minutes for
the changes to propagate
across the Internet.
And I didn't do it because I
moved my redirect email, but
I'll show you on a different
domain how to have some fun.
So I'll pick gogemgo.com,
again, a great domain name, but
I haven't done anything with it,
I also moved that to Digital Ocean.
Let me pick a random one that I know,
let's see, I'll pick netflix.college.
I really just need to drop these,
I don't know why I'm paying for these.
I'm sure everybody says that every year.
So on Namecheap, a cool thing you
can do is you can make an alias for
all of your email addresses.
So if I wanna make,
I don't know, jem@jemstack.lol,
I can do that, so
I can put a wildcard here.
Put a catch-all, actually, and
I can just forward it to myself
at one of my email addresses,
@gmail.com So now I can send any traffic,
I can't write emails using this
because it's just a forward.
But what I like to do, and
this is one of my favorite things to do,
is if I'm using a product or service,
I say, for instance, like my personal
domain name, jemyoung.com,
I just say I'm on amazon@jemyoung.com.
That way I know if I ever get spams
where all these things are coming from,
and I can wildcard it all.
If I wanna sign up for Frontend Masters,
I can say frontendmasters@gemyoung.com.
And I have all these custom email
addresses that just forward to
my personal one.
Now, you can't send email addresses with
a forwarder, that you have to pay for,
which is possible, it's not too expensive.
And that way you can have your own
private domain, your own private email,
it makes you look professional when
you own yourself@yourself.com or
something like that.
But if you just want to do forwarding,
it's free, and it's a pretty fun
way of catching spam or just making
life a little bit more interesting.
I will say this,
people are not as technology adept,
they sometimes get suspicious.
I use one,
it was like mybank@jemyoung.com,
like, do you work for this bank?
And I'm ending the bank, so
don't call my bank, but I was like, no,
that's just a forwarding address,
they're like, okay.
And they really gave me,
is this a hacker, man?
So be careful, that's actually
happened to me a few times.
If I use the company
name at mydomainname.com,
they get really suspicious.
Then I have to explain email forwarding
and that's the whole thing, but
it's worth it to have
a custom domain name.
Okay, so now that those changes have
hopefully propagated out on the Internet,
we can add domain names
to Digital Ocean now.
So I'm gonna say gemstack.lol.
And we're gonna add that domain, and
we're gonna map it to my droplet here.
Remember, I only had one droplet,
if you made more than one,
make sure you pick the right one.
So we're gonna add that domain here,
and of course,
we can't just add it,
we need to add a record.
So remember we said the @ was the root?
So that's just gemstack.lol, and
we're gonna pick, is this the right one?
See, this way you don't
have too many droplets.
That's the right one, is it the right one?
Let me double check.
Scroll up to my actual IP
address cuz I'm lazy, yes,
it ends in 128.44, okay,
so this is the right one.
So we're gonna create an A record,
and then we'll create another one for
www, and
we're gonna map it to our droplet again.
And then we're gonna
create another record.
Okay, everybody there with me?
One small step for you,
one giant leap for your web application.
And at this point,
if you've done everything right,
we have connected our random domain to our
random server using the power of Internet,
DNS, and nameservers.
But if I go to jemstack.lol, nothing,
cuz our server doesn't do anything yet.
So it doesn't know how to respond
to any requests to that query.
But using our network tools,
let us validate,
let's see what the nameservers have done,
maybe they haven't propagated fully yet.
So we'll say dig jemstack.lol,
And it's not available yet, again,
these changes can take time.
So in the meantime, if it still
hasn't happened for some reason,
because vagaries of the Internet,
we can always just use our IP address for
now instead of our domain name.
Let me try nslookup, I don't know if
that will tell me something different.
Yeah, so the changes haven't propagated
fully yet, it can take time, yes.
>> What service do you use to
send emails from your domain?
>> I think Namecheap, depending on who
you're using to manage your nameserver,
you can just buy a service,
Namecheap will have it.
I forget how much it costs, I know Google,
you can do with Google as well,
if you wanna hand them
control of your domain.
So what will happen if you
wanna do Gmail forwarding, or
have a Gmail address with your domain.
You have to hand, not control, but
you need to move the nameserver over to
Google Domains,
just like we did with DigitalOcean.
Then that way they can
manage the DNS system, and
then you can do email forwarding.
I think DigitalOcean will allow it too,
that's usually a service
you have to pay for.
If you just want to do email forwarding,
that's free, you can do that for free.
But if you wanna send that email back out,
that costs money.
And here there's a button to buy a private
email for your domain name if you need.
And if you need to transfer
it to a different registrar,
you would go to Sharing & Transfer.
They usually make this pretty difficult,
because, obviously, I don't
want someone buying randomly netflix.com
because they felt like it, yeah.
>> I think Namecheap does,
with the private email at least,
back with one of my other domains, they
do integrate with Google Workspace, or
it used to be Google Apps for Business.
But if you want that Gmail feel and
Google Drive and everything,
you just click a couple buttons and
they configure the DNS in Namecheap.
And they'll bill you for the Google
account through your Namecheap account.
>> Nice, did not know that.
So for those who couldn't hear, Namecheap
will hook up your domain to Google Drive
and Gmail if you need, and
they'll hook it all for you.
I do like Namecheap, the UI may be
a bit much, it's a little clunky,
maybe more information than you need for
most cases,
but they are the cheapest and
they're pretty reliable.
I've used them for well over a decade
now and haven't had any issues.